In our project, we've got of course two ends, two parts
so to say, the back-end and the front-end. Now I want to start with optimizing the back-end. There, we right
now have a lot of logic in our routes files,
so in the routes folder, posts and users. Now for our app here, this is probably fine but it would also be
nice if we could see which routes we have and which middleware they take a bit quicker.
Right now, we have to scroll through the entire posts.js file and it's easy to overlook a route or misread
it,
therefore I will add a new folder on the back-end here,
the controller, controllers folder. In that folder,
I will add new files which will actually contain the logic for the routes and I will simply forward
requests to my controller actions then from within the routes files,
let's start with the user.js file here. In that file, I want to handle the user related logic and for
that, I will simply add my logic from the user.js file to that controller,
however not the routing logic,
instead I simply just want to put my methods in there. So for signing up for example, I'm talking about
this method we are executing,
so our own middleware here.
I want to pull it out of the route file so that there, I really only listen to a certain verb and
define a path and then I want to export that logic, that method inside of my user.js controller and for
that, I will use another export syntax, exports and then the name of the function on which you want to export
this, like
for example createuser.
Then you assign a value to that exported object so to say, to this exported property and that value
simply is the function I want to use,
so in my case the function I just cut out of the routes file, this middleware function we defined there.
Now this function uses things like bcrypt and the user model,
so for it to work, we need to import that.
We don't need Express because that's only needed for the router but we need bcrypt, we need the
token eventually and we'll also need the user model,
we can cut all of that from the user.js file in the routes folder and add it to the user.js file in
the controllers folder. There
at the very top, I will add these imports. Now important, here we don't need to adjust the path
pointing to the model
because if we go up from level to controllers, we still reach it
but if you were to add the controller folder somewhere else in a nested place, maybe nest it into routes,
then make sure to update this path to correctly reach that user model file again.
So this is the first step,
of course we don't just have that create user route here,
we also have the login route,
so let's also grab this function here and cut it out of our code here in the user.js file in the routes
folder and export it here instead, in the controller, there
I export, important it's exports,
I export my user login function let's say, this now again is just my middleware function which I cut
out
and now we get all the logic in the controller.
The next step is to connect our functions to the controllers and for that, we need to import our functions
into the routes file.
So here, I will simply add a new constant and I'll name it userController,
you can name it however you want,
I'll name it like this because I want to kind of indicate that this is an object which groups
several things and I'll import it by using the normal require syntax and then I go to the controllers folder
and there, to the user file.
And now I can use user control here on the sign-up route,
still as a second argument and there I access my create user function.
I'm not executing it by adding parentheses, I'm instead just passing a reference
and Express will therefore register this and execute it whenever a request reaches this route.
And for login, I do basically the same,
I use user controller user login and now everything should work as before but now with controllers in
place.
If we now go back to our application, we can test this by logging in with valid credentials,
this is looking good. So our back-end still works
but now with controllers for our user routes.
Now I will do the same for the posts and definitely feel free to pause the video here and try this on
your own,
that's a good practice
and I'm assuming you were successful but let's now also do it together in case you have a tiny error somewhere.
I will add a posts.js file in the controllers folder and now I will just grab all my middleware functions
from the posts.js file here and put it into my controllers folder.
Now for that, let's go to the first route we have here.
Let's leave the multer and the checkAuth middleware as it is
and let's simply grab that last function here, cut it and move over to the posts.js file and here I will
export a new property which I'll name createPost and assign my function as a value.
Now important,
we of course have some dependencies we need here too,
so we will need the post model to be precise.
Let's cut it out of the posts file
in the routes folder therefore and let's add it to the posts file in the controllers folder.
So here I will add my import to the post model.
Now that is the route for creating posts,
we of course have other routes too, like for updating a post, let's fetch our function here too, cut it,
go to the posts.js file in the controllers folder and export updatePost here, again by assigning our
function as a value,
then let's go back to the posts.js file and let's do the same for getting all posts. Cut this function,
go to the controller, create a new exported function with the exports keyword,
getPosts
seems like a fitting name and add our function here,
go back to the routes.
Repeat the same for fetching a single post,
cut this, go to the controller and add exports
getPost here, assign the function, go back to the posts route and repeat one last time for deleting
a post.
Let's cut it, let's go back to the controller,
let's export this, deletePost and assign a function.
Now we got it all in the controllers file,
let's now import that into the posts.js route file by adding an import up there, post controller is
imported by using require and then going to the controllers folder and there importing the posts file.
And now we can use that post controller
in all our routes as the last argument. For the post route here, it's createPost and again, don't execute
it,
just pass a reference, for putting it's of course updatePost, for getting it's getPosts and
for getting a single post, it's of course
getPost and then here in delete, it's deletePosts,
simple as that.
Now we get a cleaned up routes file,
let's see what else we can do on the back-end in the next lecture.